Let's leave the slides and go back to the IDE.
I'll now write an integration test with JUnit and Arquillian to
make sure our book repository behaves as expected.
That means packaging our code with ShrinkWrap and
testing CRUD operation within WildFly.
Back to the IDE, to save us a bit of time I've already changed the pom.
xml so make sure to go and check the code.
So I've installed JUnit, Arquillian, ShrinkWrap,
add the right dependencies, so here it's Arquillian-universe,
JUnit, the JUnit extension of Arquillian,
both in scope test, ShrinkWrap and the WildFly container extension.
Okay so now that we have all the dependencies set,
let's create a BookRepository test.
So again,
I'm using IntelliJ IDEA to save a bit of time and I'm going to
create an Arquillian test from the book repository.
So here I pick up Arquillian JUnit, let's say I override method create,
OK, here it is, IntelliJ has created a basic test for me.
So let's run it.
So I use Maven, Maven test, and this test should fail.
Why that?
If you scroll the logs, we see that the test couldn't connect.
Of course,
it's an integration test so I need to run WildFly on a
separate process and then execute the test again.
So here WildFly is starting, okay, and I'm going to do Maven test again.
And this time it should work.
Good.
I'm not going to use the command line all the time so,
again, with IntelliJ IDEA there's a nice Arquillian integration,
so I just click on the green arrow and it does the same thing,
expect it's nicer, I have a green bar.
Okay our test doesn't do much yet.
So let's actually test the book repository.
First of all I inject the BookRepository class, private BookRepository.
Now I'm going to test the countAll and findAll.
So at this point of time, my database is empty.
So if I do bookRepository countAll, I except to have 0 entities, 0.
Same for the findAll.
So bookRepository.
findAll.
size, because it returns a list of book entities, should also return 0.
Let's execute the test.
Oh, the test failed.
Okay let's make it bigger and scroll the logs and see why.
Oh, that's because it hasn't found the Book class.
Remember ShrinkWrap?
We have to tell ShrinkWrap to add the Book class inside the archive.
So we do down the createDeployment method,
add the class Book, here it is, and run the test again.
Should be better.
Nope.
Still doesn't work.
Scroll the logs, oh, that's because I don't have a persistence unit.
Yeah, when I created the test, IntelliJ IDEA created a test-persistence.
xml, so now we have to tell ShrinkWrap to package the test-persistence.
xml inside the archive.
So META-INF/test-persistence.
xml and of course we have to call it persistence.
xml.
That should be better.
Let's run the test again.
Nope, failed.
Scroll the logs, something might be wrong.
Oh, language,
remember that the Book entity has a reference to the enumeration
language and again it has to be packaged in the archive.
Execute the test, yes, it's green.
So we made sure that the countAll and the findAll
returned 0 when the database is empty.
So now let's create a book.
So it's just a matter of creating a Book object and passing some attributes,
so the isbn, let's call it isbn, a title,
a unit cost, let's say it's $12, it's 123 pages long,
written in English, the publication date - I just put new Date,
the imageURL - well http://blahblahblah,
and a description of the book.
So now I've created a Book object.
I'm going to persist it into the database.
How?
By calling the Create method in the bookRepository.
So now the book should have been persisted in the database.
Let's save the bookId, so book.
getId, now I have the identifier.
Let's check this identify is not null.
Remember the JPA generates an Id for us,
so I want to make sure this Id is not null.
Okay, so the book has been persisted in the database.
I should be able to find it.
How?
Again, with the bookRepository, so bookRepository.
find, giving this bookId that I've saved.
So that returns a book from the database.
So now we want to make sure it's the right book and it has been found.
Well one way of doing it is checking the title,
for example, so make sure the title of the book it's called a title.
Here it is.
Assert, the title is a title.
Let's execute the test.
Yes, it's green.
So I made sure the create and the find was working.
Let's copy/paste these two lines and now that we have created one book,
doing a countAll and findAll should be 1,
it should be 1 book in the database now.
Yes, so looks like our queries are working.
One last test, let's delete the book from the database, so bookRepository.
delete, giving the bookId, and you know what,
let's copy these two lines and now we've created one book,
deleted one book, so if we count the number of books it should be back to 0.
Yes, our integration test is working.
Okay let's commit our code.
So let's make that bigger.
So this time we've changed the pom.
xml, there was a test-persistence.
xml and we created the bookRepository test. Let's change that and commit for next module.